# Counseling Strategies and Common Concerns

## Responding to Fear

These feelings are completely normal when thinking about someone working on your eyes. But rest assured, there's nothing to be afraid of. These procedures are so safe and efficient. We take great pride in our surgeons who have undergone extensive additional training and have performed thousands and thousands of these procedures to truly master them and deliver the best outcomes possible. Additionally, we make sure you are extremely comfortable the entire time! Through a combination of a relaxing environment and the ability to choose your own music plus the medications, the procedures are typically over before people even realize they started since they're so quick and painless. Additionally, most of the surgeons and staff have had some sort of vision correction procedure themselves so we can relate and talk you through the normal feeling of nervousness as well as celebrate with you when you get through it and realize how easy it is after all.

## Responding to Financial Concerns (e.g., this is too expensive)

A few thousand dollars can be a lot for anybody. Let's consider the cost of LASIK or vision correction compared to the ongoing price of glasses or contact lenses. Take someone who's 20, if you're paying $180 for contacts every 90 days, which can definitely be more expensive if you require the astigmatism correcting lenses, and $500 for glasses every year. So that's $860 per year, conservatively speaking. Doing this for 20 years racks up an impressive bill of over $17,000. Compared to the investment of a few thousand dollars in vision correction, most people financially breakeven after only a few short years. By the way, this doesn't even account for the value of being able to wake up and see without the nuisance of needing to wear something on your face or put plastic in your eyes. Many consider these factors essentially priceless. How much are you paying for contact lenses every year? [ALLOW PATIENTS TO TELL YOU THE COST OF THEIR ANNUAL GLASSES AND CONTACT LENSES TO RUN SOME NUMBERS AND CALCULATE HOW MUCH IT'S COSTING THEM AND HOW MUCH THEY'D SAVE WITH VISION CORRECTION ASSUMING A MEDIAN PRICE OF $6,000 FOR BOTH EYES]
